
---
layout: default
title: Single Sign-On Mechanisms
nav_exclude: True
---

The SAP Mobile Platform Server OData proxy service supports the use of one or more single sign-on (SSO) mechanisms.

In single sign-on implementations, clients log in to SAP Mobile Platform Server, and then the server uses the authentication providers that you configure in the security profile to authenticate the clients to back-end systems.

SSO Mechanism	Description

Basic Authentication	Connects to the back end with the end user's user name and password. The provider that is configured in the security profile must authenticate the end user with a user name and password, for example, HTTP/HTTPS Authentication, Directory Service (LDAP/AD), or System Login (Admin Only).
SAPAssertionSSO	Configure the back-end system to accept SAP assertion tickets that are signed by a trusted X.509 key pair, and define these properties:
Issuer SID – system ID of the certificate issuer; must be trusted by the back-end system.
Issuer Client – client ID of the certificate issuer; must be trusted by the back-end system
Recipient SID – back-end system ID.
Recipient Client – client ID of the back-end system.
Certificate – enter the alias of the private-key entry in the keystore that signs generated SSO2 tokens. The only supported private-key algorithm is the Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA).
Signing Key – certificate signing key.
X.509 Authentication	Connects to the back end using the configured technical user's X.509 certificate. The end-user certificate is passed in the HTTP ssl_client_certificate header.
Configure the back end:
Allow a technical user to impersonate an end user by passing the end user's certificate in the ssl_client_certificate header and executing the request in the context of the end user. The end-user certificate may be generated by the Principal Propagation provider that is configured in the security profile, or it may be supplied by the end user when he or she authenticates to the server over a mutually authenticated HTTPS connection. You can use this mechanism with either the X.509 User Certificate authentication provider or the Principal Propagation provider that is configured in the security profile.

Map the user certificate presented in the HTTP header to a user who is configured in the user store.

Verify that the back-end service can be accessed using SSL certificates.

Refer to your back-end system documentation for more information.

Kerberos	Enter the Kerberos realm and the service name. Connects to the back end by setting the Kerberos token value in the Authorization: Negotiate <Kerberos token> header. Configure the back end to authenticate users with Kerberos.
You can use this mechanism only if the Kerberos provider is configured in the security profile. The server obtains a Kerberos access token for the specified realm and service name. The realm contains the back-end resources to which you want to provide SSO access.

Note
The service user who is configured in the security profile must also be configured in Active Directory with permission to delegate to the application-endpoint service.
Basic Authentication (Technical User)	Enter the user name and password for the technical user. Connects to the back end using these credentials.
You can use this SSO mechanism with any authentication-provider configuration in the security profile.

Basic Authentication (X.509)	Connects to the back end using the configured technical-user X.509 certificate.
If selected, also choose a Certificate Alias. The list contains the alias values for certificates in the shared server keystore (smp_keystore.jks).

You can use this mechanism with any authentication-provider configuration in the security profile.

Custom Authentication	Sends configured headers/cookies with values derived from a regular expression. This is a generic mechanism to pass SSO details that are not covered by other explicit mechanisms. Select Custom, and enter:
Name – name of the header or cookie.
Pattern – header or cookie value.
Type – header or cookie.
When the user authentication was done using the OAuth Authentication Provider, the original OAuth2 token can be sent along to a back end. Use the following settings:
Type

header

Name

Authorization

Pattern

${OAuth2Token}
No Authentication	Back ends require no credentials for authentication. Your destination is granted direct access to relevant on-premise services.
